Actually, it isn't a reading in Welsh. It is by a Welshman, however, Dylan Thomas.
I know a few of you have been up to Vancouver, and you've probably heard me reading this poem before.
But unfortunately, I'm getting older and I need glasses, and I didn't bring them with me tonight,
so it's about the only poem that I know fairly well without glasses.
LAUGHTER
This poem is about a little farm in West Wales called Fernhill.
It was a farm where Dylan's aunt and uncle, aunt Anna, lived.
And as a boy, he would go to the farm and play with the cattle and the animals around the farm.
And this is a recollection of his childhood in Fernhill.
Now, as I was young and easy under the apple boughs,
About the lilting house and happy as the grass was green,
The night above the dingle starry,
Time let me tail and climb golden in the hay days with eyes,
And honoured among my wagons I was prince of the apple towns,
And once below a time I laudly had the trees and leaves trail
With daisies and barley down the rivers of the windfall light.
And as I was green and carefree, famous among the barns,
About the happy yard and singing as the farm was home,
In the sun that is young once only,
Time let me play and be golden in the mercy of his means,
And green and golden I was huntsman and herdsman,
The calf sang to my horn, the foxes on the hills barked clear and cold,
And the sabbath rang slowly in the pebbles of the holy streams.
All the sun long it was running, it was lovely,
The hay fields high as the house, the tunes from the chimneys,
It was air and playing lovely and watery, and fire green as grass.
And nightly under the simple stars as I rode to sleep,
The owls were bearing the farm away.
All the moon long I heard blessed among stables,
The night jars flying with the ricks,
And the horses flashing into the dark.
And then to awake, and the farm like a wanderer,
The white with the dew come back, the cock on his shoulder,
It was all shining, it was Adam and Maiden,
The sky gathered again and the sun grew round that very day.
So it must have been after the birth of the simple light
In the first spinning place,
The spellbound horses walking warm out of the winnie and green stable,
Onto the fields of praise.
And honoured among fat foxes and pheasants by the gay house
Under the new May clouds, and happy as the heart was long,
In the sun born over and over I ran my heedless ways.
My wishes raced through the house high hay,
And nothing I cared that my sky blue trades,
That time allows in all his tuneful turning,
So few and such mourning songs,
Before the children green and golden follow him out of grace.
Nothing I cared in those lamb white days
That time would take me up to the swallowed thronged loft
By the shadow of my hand in the moon that is always rising,
Nor that riding to sleep I should hear him fly with the high fields,
And wake to the farm forever fled from the childless land.
Oh, as I was young and easy in the mercy of his means,
Time held me green and dying,
Though I sang in my chains like the sea.
Thank you.